docs/quick-start.md, before:

## SPYDER admin port and CI examples

When running `qflush start` in CI or locally you may encounter `EADDRINUSE` if SPYDER's admin port is already bound on the runner. You can control the admin port using one of the following options (priority order):

- Environment variable: `QFLUSH_SPYDER_ADMIN_PORT=12345`
- Project config: `.qflush/spyder.config.json` — set the key `adminPort` to the desired port.
- Legacy config: `.qflush/logic-config.json` — set `spyderAdminPort`.

If none are provided QFLUSH defaults to port `4001`. The `qflush start` command will persist the chosen port into `.qflush/spyder.config.json` when the file is missing so other components can reuse it.

Example `.env` snippet to add to your CI or local env file:

```
# SPYDER admin port (override to avoid conflicts)
QFLUSH_SPYDER_ADMIN_PORT=4022
# Disable external webhooks during CI
QFLUSH_DISABLE_WEBHOOK=1
# Test token used by test helper
QFLUSH_TEST_TOKEN=ci-test-token-placeholder
```

Example GitHub Actions job snippet (set env before running tests):

```yaml
env:
  QFLUSH_SPYDER_ADMIN_PORT: '4022'
  QFLUSH_DISABLE_WEBHOOK: '1'
  QFLUSH_TEST_TOKEN: '${{ secrets.QFLUSH_TEST_TOKEN }}'

steps:
  - uses: actions/checkout@v4
  - uses: actions/setup-node@v4
    with:
      node-version: '20'
  - name: Install deps
    run: npm ci --no-audit --no-fund
  - name: Build
    run: npm run build
  - name: Run tests
    run: npm test
```
If you want, I can add these entries to `README.md` too.
Quick start checklist — QFLUSH (local, NO-REDIS / NO-COPILOT)

This file contains a short checklist and copy-paste commands to get QFLUSH running locally in the "NO-REDIS / NO-COPILOT" safe mode used by this repo.

1) Prepare environment
- Copy example env and edit if needed:
  - PowerShell:
    Copy-Item .env.example .env; notepad .env
  - Bash:
    cp .env.example .env && ${EDITOR:-nano} .env

- Confirm the following variables are set to disable external services (recommended for dev):
  QFLUSH_DISABLE_REDIS=1
  QFLUSH_DISABLE_COPILOT=1
  QFLUSH_TELEMETRY=0

2) Install dependencies
- npm ci --no-audit --no-fund

3) Build
- npm run build

4) Run tests
- npm test

5) Start daemon (detached recommended)
- Using CLI (detached by default):
  qflush daemon
- Using safe-run (detached):
  qflush safe-run --detach daemon
- Using the detach script via npm:
  npm run detach -- node dist/index.js daemon --detached

6) Quick API checks (after daemon started)
- Store checksum:
  curl -sS -X POST http://localhost:4500/npz/checksum/store -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d '{"id":"t1","checksum":"abc"}'
- Verify checksum:
  curl -sS -X POST http://localhost:4500/npz/checksum/verify -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d '{"id":"t1","checksum":"abc"}'
- List checksums:
  curl -sS http://localhost:4500/npz/checksum/list

7) Useful scripts
- Detach helper (Node): ./scripts/detach.js
- POSIX watchdog: ./scripts/run-with-timeout.sh
- PowerShell watchdog: ./scripts/run-with-timeout.ps1

8) Re-enable Redis / Copilot (production)
- To re-enable Redis, set REDIS_URL and remove/clear QFLUSH_DISABLE_REDIS.
- To re-enable Copilot, provide `.qflush/copilot.json` with `enabled:true` and set HMAC/webhook envs.

9) Cleanup helpers
- If you need to force-reset the repo's runtime state:
  - qflush purge
  - npm run run:timeout -- 5 node dist/index.js purge

If you want, I can add these entries to `README.md` too.

Commit message:

docs: update env.example and quick-start to reflect QFLUSHD default port 43421 and spyder admin port guidance

docs/quick-start.md, after:

## SPYDER admin port and CI examples

When running `qflush start` in CI or locally you may encounter `EADDRINUSE` if SPYDER's admin port is already bound on the runner. You can control the admin port using one of the following options (priority order):

- Environment variable: `QFLUSH_SPYDER_ADMIN_PORT=12345`
- Project config: `.qflush/spyder.config.json` — set the key `adminPort` to the desired port.
- Legacy config: `.qflush/logic-config.json` — set `spyderAdminPort`.

If none are provided QFLUSH defaults to port `4001`. On CI we change the default QFLUSHD port to `43421` to avoid collision with SPYDER (admin port `4001`). The `qflush start` command will persist the chosen port into `.qflush/spyder.config.json` when the file is missing so other components can reuse it.

Example `.env` snippet to add to your CI or local env file:

```
# Qflush daemon port (override to avoid conflicts with Spyder)
QFLUSHD_PORT=43421
# SPYDER admin port (override to avoid conflicts)
QFLUSH_SPYDER_ADMIN_PORT=4022
# Disable external webhooks during CI
QFLUSH_DISABLE_WEBHOOK=1
# Test token used by test helper
QFLUSH_TEST_TOKEN=ci-test-token-placeholder
```

Example GitHub Actions job snippet (set env before running tests):

```yaml
env:
  QFLUSHD_PORT: '43421'
  QFLUSH_SPYDER_ADMIN_PORT: '4022'
  QFLUSH_DISABLE_WEBHOOK: '1'
  QFLUSH_TEST_TOKEN: '${{ secrets.QFLUSH_TEST_TOKEN }}'

steps:
  - uses: actions/checkout@v4
  - uses: actions/setup-node@v4
    with:
      node-version: '20'
  - name: Install deps
    run: npm ci --no-audit --no-fund
  - name: Build
    run: npm run build
  - name: Run tests
    run: npm test
```
If you want, I can add these entries to `README.md` too.
Quick start checklist — QFLUSH (local, NO-REDIS / NO-COPILOT)

This file contains a short checklist and copy-paste commands to get QFLUSH running locally in the "NO-REDIS / NO-COPILOT" safe mode used by this repo.

1) Prepare environment
- Copy example env and edit if needed:
  - PowerShell:
    Copy-Item .env.example .env; notepad .env
  - Bash:
    cp .env.example .env && ${EDITOR:-nano} .env

- Confirm the following variables are set to disable external services (recommended for dev):
  QFLUSH_DISABLE_REDIS=1
  QFLUSH_DISABLE_COPILOT=1
  QFLUSH_TELEMETRY=0

2) Install dependencies
- npm ci --no-audit --no-fund

3) Build
- npm run build

4) Run tests
- npm test

5) Start daemon (detached recommended)
- Using CLI (detached by default):
  qflush daemon
- Using safe-run (detached):
  qflush safe-run --detach daemon
- Using the detach script via npm:
  npm run detach -- node dist/index.js daemon --detached

6) Quick API checks (after daemon started)
- Store checksum:
  curl -sS -X POST http://localhost:4500/npz/checksum/store -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d '{"id":"t1","checksum":"abc"}'
- Verify checksum:
  curl -sS -X POST http://localhost:4500/npz/checksum/verify -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d '{"id":"t1","checksum":"abc"}'
- List checksums:
  curl -sS http://localhost:4500/npz/checksum/list

7) Useful scripts
- Detach helper (Node): ./scripts/detach.js
- POSIX watchdog: ./scripts/run-with-timeout.sh
- PowerShell watchdog: ./scripts/run-with-timeout.ps1

8) Re-enable Redis / Copilot (production)
- To re-enable Redis, set REDIS_URL and remove/clear QFLUSH_DISABLE_REDIS.
- To re-enable Copilot, provide `.qflush/copilot.json` with `enabled:true` and set HMAC/webhook envs.

9) Cleanup helpers
- If you need to force-reset the repo's runtime state:
  - qflush purge
  - npm run run:timeout -- 5 node dist/index.js purge

If you want, I can add these entries to `README.md` too.
